=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwsiteinfo> - Print information from the silk.conf site configuration file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwsiteinfo --fields=FIELD[,FIELD...]
        { [--classes=CLASS[,CLASS...]] [--types=TYPE[,TYPE...]]
          | [--flowtypes=CLASS/TYPE[,CLASS/TYPE...]] }
        [--sensors=SENSOR[,SENSOR...]]
        [--data-rootdir=ROOT_DIRECTORY] [--site-config-file=FILENAME]
        [--no-titles] [--no-columns] [--column-separator=CHAR]
        [--no-final-delimiter] [{--delimited | --delimited=CHAR}]
        [--list-delimiter=CHAR] [--pager=PAGER_PROG]

  rwsiteinfo --help

  rwsiteinfo --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwsiteinfo> is a utility to print selected information about the
classes, types, flowtypes, and sensors that are defined in the
B<silk.conf(5)> site configuration file.  The B<--fields> switch is
required, and its argument is a comma-separated list of field names
selecting the fields to be printed.  The output from B<rwsiteinfo>
consists of multiple columns and rows, where each column contains one
of the I<FIELD>s and where each row has a unique value for one of the
I<FIELD>s.  B<rwsiteinfo> prints rows until all possible combinations
of fields is exhausted.  By default, the information is printed in a
columnar, bar (C<|>) delimited format.

The B<--classes>, B<--types>, B<--flowtypes>, and B<--sensors>
switches allow the user to limit the amount of information printed.
(These switches operate similarly to their namesakes on B<rwfilter(1)>
and B<rwfglob(1)>.)  If none of these switches are given,
B<rwsiteinfo> prints information for I<all> values defined in the
F<silk.conf> file.  If one or more of these switches is specified,
B<rwsiteinfo> limits its output to the specified values.  To print
information about the default class or the default types within a
class, use the at-sign (C<@>) as the name of the class or type,
respectively.  The B<--flowtypes> switch must be used independently of
the B<--classes> and B<--types> switches.

As stated above, B<rwsiteinfo> prints unique rows given a list of
I<FIELD>s.  As an example, suppose the user entered the command
C<rwsiteinfo --fields=class,type,sensor>.  B<rwsiteinfo> will print a
row containing the first class defined in the F<silk.conf> file, the
first type defined for that class, and the first sensor name defined
for that class/type pair.  On the next row, the class and type will be
the same and the second sensor name will be printed.  Once all sensors
have been printed, B<rwsiteinfo> repeats the process for the second
type defined for the first class, and so on.  Once all information for
the first class has been printed, the process would repeat for the
next class, until all classes have been printed.

The order of the I<FIELD>s determines how B<rwsiteinfo> iterates
through the possible values.  The last I<FIELD> will change most
rapidly, and the first field will change most slowly.  Two invocations
of B<rwsiteinfo> where the first specifies C<--fields=class,sensor>
and the second specifies C<--fields=sensor,class> produce the same
number of rows, and each invocation has an outer and inner iterator.
In the first invocation, the outer iterator is over the classes, and
the inner iterator is over each sensor defined in that class.  In the
second invocation, the outer iterator is over the sensors, and the
inner is over the classes to which that sensor belongs.

In general, the output will contain some combination of class, type,
flowtype, and sensor.  For flowtype and sensor, the numeric ID may be
printed instead of the name.  For class and type, the default values
may be printed or they may be identified by a symbol.  Most field
names support a I<FIELD>B<:list> variant that puts all possible values
for that field into a single column.  See the description of the
B<--fields> switch below for details.


=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--fields>=I<FIELD>[,I<FIELD>...]

Specify the fields to print as a comma-separated list of names.  The
names are case-insensitive.  The fields will be displayed in the order
the names are specified.  The B<--fields> switch is required, and
B<rwsiteinfo> will fail when it is not provided.

The list of possible field names is:

=over 4

=item class

the class name, e.g., C<all>

=item type

the type name, e.g., C<inweb>

=item flowtype

the flowtype name, e.g., C<iw>.  The flowtype name is a combination of
the class name and type name, and it is used to name files in the SiLK
data repository.

=item id-flowtype

the integer identifier for the flowtype, e.g., C<2>

=item sensor

the sensor name, e.g., C<S3>

=item id-sensor

the integer identifier for the sensor, e.g., C<3>

=item describe-sensor

the sensor description, when present

=item default-class

the default class name

=item default-type

the default type name

=item mark-defaults

a two-character wide column that contains a plus 'B<+>' on a row that
contains the default class and an asterisk 'B<*>' on a row that
contains a default type

=item class:list

instead of printing class names on separate rows, join all the classes
in a single row separated using the list-delimiter

=item type:list

instead of printing type names on separate rows, join all the types
in a single row separated using the list-delimiter

=item flowtype:list

instead of printing flowtype names on separate rows, join all the
flowtypes in a single row separated using the list-delimiter

=item id-flowtype:list

instead of printing flowtype identifiers on separate rows, join all
the flowtype identifiers in a single row separated using the
list-delimiter

=item sensor:list

instead of printing sensor names on separate rows, join all the
sensors in a single row separated using the list-delimiter

=item id-sensor:list

instead of printing sensor identifiers on separate rows, join all the
sensor identifiers in a single row separated using the list-delimiter

=item default-class:list

equivalent to default-class, but provided for consistency

=item default-type:list

instead of printing the default type names on separate rows, join all
the default type names in a single row separated using the
list-delimiter

=back

=item B<--classes>=I<CLASS>[,I<CLASS>...]

Restrict the output using the class(es) named in the comma-separated
list.  The default class may be specified by using an at-sign (C<@>)
as the name of a class.

=item B<--types>=I<TYPE>[,I<TYPE>...]

Restrict the output using the type(s) named in the comma-separated
list.  The default types for a class may be specified by using an
at-sign (C<@>) as the name of a type.

=item B<--flowtypes>=I<CLASS>/I<TYPE>[,I<CLASS>/I<TYPE>...]

Restrict the output using the class/type pairs named in the
comma-separated list, where the class name and type name are separated
by a slash (C</>).  The keyword C<all> may be used for the I<CLASS>
and/or I<TYPE> to select all classes and/or types.

=item B<--sensors>=I<SENSOR>[,I<SENSOR>...]

Restrict the output to the sensors(s) named in the comma-separated
list of sensor names, sensor IDs (integers), and/or ranges of sensor
IDs.

=item B<--data-rootdir>=I<ROOT_DIRECTORY>

Use I<ROOT_DIRECTORY> as the root of the data repository, which
overrides the location given in the SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR environment
variable, which in turn overrides the location that was compiled into
B<rwsiteinfo> (@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@).  This directory is one of the
locations where B<rwsiteinfo> attempts to find the F<silk.conf> file.

=item B<--site-config-file>=I<FILENAME>

Read the SiLK site configuration from the named file I<FILENAME>.
When this switch is not provided, B<rwsiteinfo> searches for the site
configuration file in the locations specified in the L</FILES>
section.

=item B<--no-titles>

Turn off column titles.  By default, titles are printed.

=item B<--no-columns>

Disable fixed-width columnar output.

=item B<--column-separator>=I<C>

Use specified character between columns and after the final column.
When this switch is not specified, the default of C<|> is used.

=item B<--no-final-delimiter>

Do not print the column separator after the final column.  Normally a
delimiter is printed.

=item B<--delimited>

=item B<--delimited>=I<C>

Run as if B<--no-columns> B<--no-final-delimiter> B<--column-sep>=I<C>
had been specified.  That is, disable fixed-width columnar output; if
character I<C> is provided, it is used as the delimiter between
columns instead of the default C<|>.

=item B<--list-delimiter>=I<C>

Specify the character to use between items that comprise a
I<FIELD>B<:list> column.  The default list delimiter is comma C<,>.

=item B<--pager>=I<PAGER_PROG>

When output is to a terminal, invoke the program I<PAGER_PROG> to view
the output one screen full at a time.  This switch overrides the
SILK_PAGER environment variable, which in turn overrides the PAGER
variable.  If the value of the pager is determined to be the empty
string, no paging will be performed and all output will be printed to
the terminal.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.  Options that add fields
can be specified before B<--help> so that the new options appear in
the output.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following examples, the dollar sign (C<$>) represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
(C<\>) is used to indicate a wrapped line.

The following prints all known sensor names, one name per line:

 $ rwsiteinfo --fields=sensors --no-titles --delimited

The following prints all known sensor names on a single line (the
names will be separated by comma):

 $ rwsiteinfo --fields=sensors:list --no-titles --delimited

This changes the separator of the sensor names to a space:

 $ rwsiteinfo --fields=sensors:list --no-titles --delimited \
        --list-delimiter=' '

The following prints the sensor names for the default class on a
single line:

 $ rwsiteinfo --fields=sensors:list --class=@ --no-titles --delimited

The following prints four columns: (1) the sensor identifier, (2) the
sensor name, (3) the list of classes for that sensor, and (4) a
description of the sensor (that is, it mimics the output of
B<mapsid(1)>):

 $ rwsiteinfo --fields=sensor,id-sensor,class:list,describe-sensor

The following prints two columns, the first containing a class name
and the second the list of default types for that class:

 $ rwsiteinfo --fields=class,default-types:list

The following prints the default class:

 $ rwsiteinfo --fields=default-class --no-titles --delimited

As does this:

 $ rwsiteinfo --fields=class --class=@ --no-titles --delimited

The following prints the default types for the default class, with
each type on a separate line:

 $ rwsiteinfo --fields=default-type --class=@ --no-titles --delimited


=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_PAGER

When set to a non-empty string, B<rwsiteinfo> automatically invokes
this program to display its output a screen at a time.  If set to an
empty string, B<rwsiteinfo> does not automatically page its output.

=item PAGER

When set and SILK_PAGER is not set, B<rwsiteinfo> automatically
invokes this program to display its output a screen at a time.

=item SILK_CONFIG_FILE

This environment variable is used as the value for the
B<--site-config-file> when that switch is not provided.

=item SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR

This environment variable specifies the root directory of data
repository.  As described in the L</FILES> section, B<rwsiteinfo> may
use this environment variable when searching for the SiLK site
configuration file.

=item SILK_PATH

This environment variable gives the root of the install tree.  When
searching for configuration files and plug-ins, B<rwsiteinfo> may use
this environment variable.  See the L</FILES> section for details.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<${SILK_CONFIG_FILE}>

=item F<${SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR}/silk.conf>

=item F<@SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR@/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<${SILK_PATH}/share/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk/silk.conf>

=item F<@prefix@/share/silk.conf>

Possible locations for the SiLK site configuration file which are
checked when the B<--site-config-file> switch is not provided.  The
location of the SILK_DATA_ROOTDIR may be specified using the
B<--root-directory> switch.

=back

=head1 NOTES

B<rwsiteinfo> was added in SiLK 3.0.

B<rwsiteinfo> duplicates the functionality found in B<mapsid(1)>.
B<mapsid> is deprecated, and it will be removed in the SiLK 4.0
release.  Examples of using B<rwsiteinfo> in place of B<mapsid> are
provided in the latter's manual page.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<silk.conf(5)>, B<mapsid(1)>, B<rwfilter(1)>, B<rwfglob(1)>,
B<silk(7)>

=cut

$SiLK: rwsiteinfo.pod 8b39dddcaab4 2013-12-06 21:47:40Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
