=pod

=head1 NAME

B<rwpdu2silk> - Convert NetFlow v5 records to SiLK Flow records

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  rwpdu2silk [--silk-output=FILE] [--print-statistics]
        [--log-destination={stdout | stderr | none | PATH}]
        [--note-add=TEXT] [--note-file-add=FILE]
        [--compression-method=COMP_METHOD]
        {--xargs | --xargs=FILENAME | PDUFILE [PDUFILE...]}

  rwpdu2silk --help

  rwpdu2silk --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rwpdu2silk> reads NetFlow v5 PDU (Protocol Data Units) records from
one or more files, converts the records to the SiLK Flow format, and
writes the SiLK records to the path specified by B<--silk-output> or
to the standard output when B<--silk-output> is not provided.  Note
that B<rwpdu2silk> cannot read from the standard input.

B<rwpdu2silk> expects its input files to be a the format created by
Cisco's NetFlow Collector: The file's size must be an integer multiple
of 1464, where each 1464 octet chunk contains a 24 octet NetFlow v5
header and space for thirty 48 octet NetFlow v5 records.  The number
of valid records per chunk is specified in the header.

B<rwpdu2silk> reads NetFlow v5 records from the files named on the
command line when B<--xargs> is not present.  If an input file name
ends in C<.gz>, the file will be uncompressed as it is read.  When the
B<--xargs> switch is provided, B<rwpdu2silk> will read the names of
the files to process from the named text file, or from the standard
input if no file name argument is provided to the switch.  The input
to B<--xargs> must contain one file name per line.

=head1 OPTIONS

Option names may be abbreviated if the abbreviation is unique or is an
exact match for an option.  A parameter to an option may be specified
as B<--arg>=I<param> or B<--arg> I<param>, though the first form is
required for options that take optional parameters.

=over 4

=item B<--silk-output>=I<FILE>

Write the SiLK records to I<FILE>, which must not exist.  If the
switch is not provided or if I<FILE> has the value C<stdout> or C<->,
the SiLK flows are written to the standard output.

=item B<--print-statistics>

Print, to the standard error, the number of records that were written
to the SiLK output file.  See also B<--log-destination>.

=item B<--log-destination>={B<none> | B<stdout> | B<stderr> | I<PATH>}

Write more detailed information to the specified destination.  The
default destination is B<none> which suppresses messages.  Use
B<stdout> or B<stderr> to send messages to the standard output or
standard error, respectively.  Any other value is treated as a file
name in which to write the messages.  When an existing file is
specified, B<rwpdu2silk> appends any messages to the file.
Information that is written includes the following:

=over 4

=item *

For each input stream, the number of PDU records read, number of SiLK
records generated, number of missing records (based on the NetFlow v5
sequence number), and number of invalid records.

=item *

Messages about invalid records.

=back

=item B<--note-add>=I<TEXT>

Add the specified I<TEXT> to the header of the output file as an
annotation.  This switch may be repeated to add multiple annotations
to a file.  To view the annotations, use the B<rwfileinfo(1)> tool.

=item B<--note-file-add>=I<FILENAME>

Open I<FILENAME> and add the contents of that file to the header of
the output file as an annotation.    This switch may be repeated to
add multiple annotations.  Currently the application makes no effort
to ensure that I<FILENAME> contains text; be careful that you do not
attempt to add a SiLK data file as an annotation.

=item B<--compression-method>=I<COMP_METHOD>

Specify how to compress the output.  When this switch is not given,
output to the standard output or to named pipes is not compressed, and
output to files is compressed using the default chosen when SiLK was
compiled.  The valid values for I<COMP_METHOD> are determined by which
external libraries were found when SiLK was compiled.  To see the
available compression methods and the default method, use the
B<--help> or B<--version> switch.  SiLK can support the following
I<COMP_METHOD> values when the required libraries are available.

=over 4

=item none

Do not compress the output using an external library.

=item zlib

Use the B<zlib(3)> library for compressing the output, and always
compress the output regardless of the destination.  Using zlib
produces the smallest output files at the cost of speed.

=item lzo1x

Use the I<lzo1x> algorithm from the LZO real time compression library
for compression, and always compress the output regardless of the
destination.  This compression provides good compression with less
memory and CPU overhead.

=item best

Use lzo1x if available, otherwise use zlib.  Only compress the output
when writing to a file.

=back

=item B<--xargs>

=item B<--xargs>=I<FILENAME>

Causes B<rwpdu2silk> to read file names from I<FILENAME> or from the
standard input if I<FILENAME> is not provided.  The input should have
one file name per line.  B<rwpdu2silk> will open each file in turn and
read records from it, as if the files had been listed on the command
line.

=item B<--help>

Print the available options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print the version number and information about how SiLK was
configured, then exit the application.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item SILK_CLOBBER

The SiLK tools normally refuse to overwrite existing files.  Setting
SILK_CLOBBER to a non-empty value removes this restriction.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<rwfileinfo(1)>, B<rwflowpack(8)>, B<silk(7)>, B<zlib(3)>

=head1 BUGS

B<rwpdu2silk> cannot read from the standard input.

=cut

$SiLK: rwpdu2silk.pod 3896709adc0e 2013-11-11 22:29:30Z mthomas $

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
